_drafts/2015-01-19-kaizen in the trenches.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Kaizen in the trenches
---
A super star team is disruptive, continually evolving and acting quickly to identify waste.
But how does a team begin to make this part of their DNA?

### Kaizen
A business philosophy formed in Japan by Toyota, Kaizen literally means *"continuous improvement"*.
This really resonates with me, I firmly believe if we aren't trying to improve ourselves then we risk becoming complacent and inevitably slowing down our progress.

This is full team effort! In Toyota participation is close to 100 percent with each employee expected to offer at least one suggestion per year for improvement.
Without experimenting and taking risks to improve, we may miss potential opportunities for greatness.
Even if things don't quite work out as we planned, failure is still an opportunity to learn for our next experiment!

In the software world I've seen teams embrace Kaizen in many ways including:

* Reducing the number of defects
* Faster delivery
* Increased customer satisfaction
* Faster recovery from disasters
* Elimination of waste which impedes delivery

### Adopting Kaizen
In order to adopt Kaizen it's important to try and *visualise your process* and strive for a *sustainable pace* at delivering software.

On projects I've worked on we use a physical board to visualise our process, which starts from customer requests and ends when they're released into the wild.
We refer to this as our value stream. It's important we visualise our value stream as humans tend to be really good at processing information when using visual aids.
We are also incredibly skilled at forgetting things, visual cues are great reminders and an easy way to digest information.

Here is an example of a project board:

![Project board](http://leankit.com/kanban/why-use-kanban-boards/what-is-a-kanban-board-illustration.jpg "Kanban board")

By visualising your value stream you can:

* Quickly see all the work in progress
* Spot impediments/blockers preventing a feature from being delivered
* Improve communication between team members
* Begin to make changes and visually see how it impacts your project

The last point is key here, I want as many opportunities as I can to see how our next experiment impacts the project.

##### Why the sustainable pace, shouldn't I be working at my full capacity?
I've often seen teams become obsessed with 100% utilisation, sometimes a side effect of focusing on velocity as the means of measuring the teams success.
However this comes at a price, flexibility. If the team is maxed out they can't quickly respond to change, they already have too much to handle!

Alternatively we could control the amount of work flowing through the value stream to match the teams capacity.
Kanban is a great system to do this and often refers to this as *limiting your work in progress (WIP)*.

The project board above shows WIP limits for each column of our value stream, indicated by red bars marked below the columns.
For example there is a limit of 2 features that can be implemented concurrently in development, which matches to the two developer pairs on the project.

Controlling WIP allows the opportunity to reduce the demand (only slightly!) and introduce slack to incorporate experiments into the team.
For example what if the developers could have an afternoon per week where they reached out for feedback from our users?
We can then incorporate what we learn into future development, we might even increase our user base.
It might sound crazy but experiments like this are often breakthroughs for the project.

[More information on Kanban](https://www.google.com)

### Measuring is key
To understand the impact our changes have on the project it's important to measure our progress and understand our successes and failures.
Remember failures are another opportunity to learn for our next experiment!
Before starting your Kaizen journey, gather measurements of your project to act as your baseline.
We need a baseline to understand what impact we've had and validate whether the hypothesis was correct.

###Cycle Time
Lets focus on one way we might strive for faster delivery.

First we need to establish a baseline for how fast we are currently delivering features.
We can measure this using cycle time (a common measurement in Kanban), which is how long a feature takes to finish from the beginning of our value stream to the end. Using the project board above, the number of days on average for features to go from 'Next' to 'Live'.

[Find more information on lead time](http://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/feeling-slow-use-lead-time-find-out-why)

Commit message:

Extracted cycle time into a different post to be created later. Added content to Kaizen article

_drafts/2015-01-19-kaizen in the trenches.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Kaizen 101
description: Agile, Lean
---
A super star team is disruptive, continually evolving and acting quickly to identify waste.
But how does a team begin to make this part of their DNA?

### Kaizen
A business philosophy formed in Japan by Toyota, Kaizen means *"continuous improvement"*.
This ideology really resonates with me, I firmly believe if we aren't trying to improve ourselves then we risk becoming complacent and inevitably slowing down our progress.

It's important to realise this is a full team effort! In Toyota participation is close to 100 percent with each employee expected to offer at least one suggestion per year for improvement.
Without experimenting and taking risks to improve, we may miss potential opportunities for greatness.
Even if things don't quite work out as we planned, failure is still an opportunity to learn for our next experiment!

I've seen teams embrace Kaizen in many ways including:

* Reducing the number of defects
* Faster delivery
* Increased customer satisfaction
* Faster recovery from disasters
* Elimination of waste which impedes delivery

### The pain
Talk about pain points and why this might help

### Adopting Kaizen
To really help with adopting, try and *visualise your process* and also strive for a *sustainable pace* at delivering software.

On projects I've worked on we use a physical board to visualise our process, which starts from customer requests and ends when they're released into the wild.
We refer to this as our value stream. It's important we visualise our value stream as humans tend to be really good at processing information when using visual aids.
We are also incredibly skilled at forgetting things, visual cues are great reminders and an easy way to digest information.

Here is an example of a project board:

![Project board](http://leankit.com/kanban/why-use-kanban-boards/what-is-a-kanban-board-illustration.jpg "Kanban board")

By visualising your value stream you can:

* Quickly see all the work in progress
* Spot impediments/blockers preventing a feature from being delivered
* Improve communication between team members
* Begin to make changes and visually see how it impacts your project

The last point is key here, I want as many opportunities as I can to see how changes affect the project (both good and bad).

### Why the sustainable pace, shouldn't I be working at my full capacity?
I've often seen teams become obsessed with 100% utilisation, sometimes a side effect of focusing on velocity as the means of measuring the teams success.
However this comes at a price, flexibility. If the team is maxed out they can't quickly respond to change, they already have too much to handle!

Alternatively we could control the amount of work flowing through the value stream to match the teams capacity.
Kanban is a great system to do this and often refers to this as *limiting your work in progress (WIP)*.

The project board above shows WIP limits for each column of our value stream, indicated by red bars marked below the columns.
For example there is a limit of 2 features that can be implemented concurrently in development, which matches to the two developer pairs on the project.

Controlling WIP allows the opportunity to reduce the demand (only slightly!) and introduce slack to incorporate experiments into the team.
For example what if the developers could have an afternoon per week where they reached out for feedback from our users?
We can then incorporate what we learn into future development, we might even increase our user base.
It might sound crazy but experiments like this are often breakthroughs for the project.

[More information on Kanban](https://www.google.com)

### Measuring is key
To understand the impact our changes have on the project it's important to measure our progress and understand our successes and failures.
Remember failures are another opportunity to learn for our next experiment!
Before starting your Kaizen journey, gather measurements of your project to act as your baseline.
We need a baseline to understand what impact we've had and validate whether the hypothesis was correct.
